# Loan_predction_ml_model

This project involves creating an AutoML tool using Python and scikit-learn to predict loan approval based on various features from historical loan application data.

**Prerequisites**

Python 3.x
Required libraries: numpy, pandas, matplotlib, seaborn, scikit-learn

**Install the required libraries using pip:**

pip install numpy pandas matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn

**Files in the Repository**

train_load_model.py: Script to train and save the loan prediction model.

test_loan_prediction.py: Script to load the saved model and make predictions.

train_loan_dataset.csv: Training dataset file.

test_loan_dataset.csv: Testing dataset file.

loan_prediction_model.pkl: Saved model file (generated by train_load_model.py).

***Steps to Run the Scripts***

**Clone the Repository:**


git clone <repository_url>
cd <repository_directory>

# **Run the Training Script:**

IN VSC TERMINAL 

python train_load_model.py

##this will take time to complete full run approx 300sec##
&
This will train the model and save it as loan_prediction_model.pkl.


**Run the Prediction Script in the same terminal:**

in VSC TERMINAL RUN

python test_loan_prediction.py

**This will load the saved model and make predictions on the test dataset.**

# other
**to see all charts and graps**
download and save the  **.ipynb** file and run it on visual code studio .

# for application view

As application is under development when it completes i I'll update here.

** for using this app go to app file run app.py in env. having flet lib.. **

thanks for reading.
